Contributing to ``gcloud-aio``
==============================

Thanks for contributing to ``gcloud-aio``! We appreciate contributions of any
size and hope to make it easy for you to dive in. Here's the thousand-foot
overview of how we've set this project up.

Local Development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All local development is done via `poetry`_. For any subproject, you can
install the development environment with:

.. code-block:: console

    cd <project>/
    poetry install

And run tests with:

.. code-block:: console

    poetry run pytest  # run all tests
    poetry run pytest tests/unit  # unit tests only
    poetry run pytest tests/integration  # integration tests only

``aio`` and ``rest``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``gcloud-aio-*`` and ``gcloud-rest-*`` are in a shared codebase; the later is
autogenerated from the former in CI or via the ``bin/build-rest`` script. You
may need to keep this in mind while developing; all code will need to be
generateable into both module trees and runnable under both Python 2 and 3
(though there are some conversion scripts we run to make things a bit more
ergonomic -- you're generally safe to write Python 3 asyncio code and rely on
the conversation script). Feel free to ping a maintainer if you're having
issues with this!

To build and test against the ``gcloud-rest`` projects, you can run:

.. code-block:: console

    poetry install
    poetry run bin/build-rest

    cd build/<project>/
    # run the above install & test commands as per normal

Submitting Changes
------------------

Please send us a `Pull Request`_ with a clear list of what you've done. When
you submit a PR, we'd appreciate test coverage of your changes (and feel free
to test other things; we could always use more and better tests!).

Please make sure all tests pass and your commits are atomic (one feature per
commit).

Always write a clear message for your changes. We think the
`conventional changelog`_ message format is pretty cool and try to stick to it
as best we can (we even generate release notes from it automatically!).

Roughly speaking, we'd appreciate if your commits looked list this:

.. code-block:: console

    feat(taskqueue): implemented task queue manager

    Created gcloud.aio.taskqueue.TaskManager for an abstraction layer around
    renewing leases on pull-queue tasks. Handles auto-renewal and async
    processing.

The first line is the most specific in this format, it should have the format
``type(project): message``, where:

- ``type`` is one of ``feat``, ``fix``, ``docs``, ``refactor``, ``style``,
  ``perf``, ``test``, or ``chore`` - ``project`` is ``auth``, ``bigquery``,
  ``datastore``, etc.
- ``message`` is a concise description of the patch and brings the line to no
  more than 72 characters

PR Tests
~~~~~~~~

Note that some integration tests require authentication with Google. Since we
don't want to expose our private keys to the world, this means your PR tests
might fail for that subset of test cases when you submit your changes.

Long-term, we'd like to switch all such integration tests to using Google
`emulators`_ and would appreciate any help in getting us closer to that goal!
Note that unfortunately Google has not yet release emulators for all the
features we have under test, so we'll not yet be able to entirely eliminate
this problem.

In the meantime, we are able to manually trigger integration tests for you on
any specific commit. Please feel free to add a comment requesting we do so!

Coding Conventions
------------------

We use `pre-commit`_ to manage our coding conventions and linting. You can
install it with ``pip install pre-commit`` and set it to run pre-commit hooks
for ``gcloud-aio`` by running ``pre-commit install``. The same linters get run
in CI against all changesets.

You can also run ``pre-commit`` in an ad-hoc fashion by calling
``pre-commit run --all-files``.

Other than the above enforced standards, we like code that is easy-to-read for
any new or returning contributors with relevant comments where appropriate.

Releases
--------

If you are a maintainer looking to release a new version, see our
`release documentation`_.

Thanks for your contribution!

With love,
Vi Engineering

.. _Pull Request: https://github.com/talkiq/gcloud-aio/pull/new/master
.. _conventional changelog: https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog
.. _emulators: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/emulators
.. _poetry: https://python-poetry.org/
.. _pre-commit: http://pre-commit.com/
.. _release documentation: https://github.com/talkiq/gcloud-aio/blob/master/.github/RELEASE.rst
